
Best IVF Centre in Dwarka: Origyn IVF- Impact of Age on IVF?
 

best IVF centre in Dwarka
 

 

Are you facing fertility issues while trying to start a family? Don’t worry, IVF – In Vitro Fertilization, got you covered. But there are a few factors to keep in mind before starting IVF Treatment like age which is one of the most important factors. The crosswalk between age and fertility is a burning issue for both social and clinical.

 

Origyn Fertility and IVF – Best IVF Centre in Dwarka:-
 

Infertility is a difficult emotional journey that affects millions of couples worldwide. And if you are a couple who is facing infertility issues then IVF is the solution for you. Whether it’s due to blocked fallopian tubes, male infertility factors, or other reproductive issues, IVF offers a chance to conceive and fulfil the dream of parenthood. 

 

Fertility clinics are crucial in offering hope and assistance to couples seeking to conceive. Origyn Fertility & IVF is the best IVF centre in Dwarka for those couples who are struggling with infertility while offering advanced reproductive healthcare services, combining innovative technology with an extensive range of services and with an experienced medical team who are dedicated to ethical practices.

 

As the best IVF centre in Dwarka, Origyn IVF specializes in providing personalized treatment to patients according to their requirements for good results. It is the best IVF Centre in Dwarka with with over 21 years of experience. They have completed over 6000 IVF cycles, achieving up to 75% success rates.

 

What is Biological Age?
 

Before anything else, I think it’s important to know, “What is a biological age?” Since biological age is different from chronological age. Chronological age means how many years you have been alive. Meanwhile, on the other hand, biological age means how old your body is based on various factors such as lifestyle, genetics, and health.

 

 

best IVF centre in Dwarka
 

 

Why Age is Important in Fertility?
 

Women have finite numbers of eggs in their ovaries which is the main factor for fertility. Women have around 7 million eggs initially during embryonic life, later which decreases to around 1 million at birth, then decreases to around 3 lakh, and then finally decreases to around 300 – 400 during the entire reproductive span.

The quantity and quality of women’s eggs decline as they age, which results in a decline in the fertility rate. This also increases the risks of miscarriage and chromosomal abnormalities. The chances of conception through IVF treatment further decrease as women reach their 40s, which is why early intervention is important. 

 

 

best IVF centre in Dwarka
 

 

Age Influence on IVF Success Rate:- 
 

As we all know the age of parents of any gender involved in the IVF process can impact the chances of success. However, unlike men, the woman’s age has a more pronounced effect due to the more rapid decline in fertility in women than men that occurs with age.

 

IVF treatment’s success rates are heavily influenced by the age of the woman. Women between 30-35 have about a 40% success rate per IVF cycle. Following with women who are under 35-37 years of age, their success rate decreases by around 30%, then 20% for women who are under 38-40 years of age, and 10% for women who are over 40 age. The above-mentioned numbers highlight the potential of IVF treatment success rate for different age groups of women.

 

Although its advancements in IVF treatment technology, have improved outcomes for older women, but still age-related fertility decline remains a significant challenge. Understanding the influence of age on IVF success rate is essential for managing expectations and planning treatment strategies. We at Origyn IVF –the best IVF Centre in Dwarka understand that age can impact fertility and the success rate in IVF treatments. We provide support to women and help them to cope with stress, and anxiety and counsel them according to their age.

 

The Right Age for IVF Treatment:-
 

According to Origyn IVF – the best IVF Centre in Dwarka, women who are in their 20s are the most fertile. As age continues to grow, the chances of having a pregnancy and live birth decreases. Since IVF treatment doesn’t fix the egg’s age, thinking about IVF at an early stage is advisable. In short, to make IVF treatment work, think about it earlier.

 

Around 2014, a study was conducted by the Department of Reproductive Medicine. The study examined the live birth and miscarriage rates of 3412 fresh IVF cycles in relation to the women’s age. The highest live birth rates are seen in women under 30 years of age, at around 40%.In women aged 30 to 35, the live birth rate declined to 38%. Among women aged 36 to 40, the live birth rate decreased to 21%. It is at its lowest in women aged over 40 years, as low as 6%.

 

Miscarriage rates are 15.1% for women under 30 years, doubling to 30% for women aged 38. The rate increased to 47.7% among women who were 39 years old. Among women aged 40-44, the miscarriage rate is as high as 55.3%. Hence, women under 30 years old have the highest rates of healthy pregnancies in both natural and assisted conception methods. So, considering IVF treatment at the right age and not as a last resort is important for a successful outcome.

 

 

best IVF centre in Dwarka
 

 

Increasing Success Rate by Repeating IVF Cycle :-
 

Doctors of Origyn Fertility Centre- the best IVF centre in Dwarka suggest some couples consider that the effectiveness of IVF treatments may require multiple treatment cycles for a cumulative success rate. This basically means the more times a patient attempts IVF treatment, the higher their chances of having a baby. Some of the factors such as age, infertility issues, and response to previous cycles impact the decision to undergo additional attempts. We Origyn Fertility & IVF Centre takes – the best IVF centre in Dwarka – care of all.

 

It understands that repeating the IVF cycle can be a financial and emotional burden but it almost always increases the success rate of IVF treatment regardless of age. According to some studies, some brave women conceived a child after 22 IVF cycles.

 

Conclusion:-
 

In conclusion, Origyn Fertility & IVF Centre – the best IVF centre in Dwarka suggest that couples who have not conceived with natural or any other minor assisted reproductive techniques like IUI, should not waste their precious time opting for IVF as the last resort at an advanced age because its success rate is majorly dependent on women’s age and is maximum when female’s age is under 35 years.

Also, Origyn IVF Centre is known as the best IVF centre in Dwarka that is why it is a leading destination for couples struggling with infertility. It offers advanced medical facilities, experienced professionals, and a supportive environment to provide hope and possibilities for these couples.
https://www.origynivf.com/best-ivf-centre-in-dwarka-origyn-ivf-impact-of-age-on-ivf/
